---
layout: post
title:  "Homework Week 2"
date:   2017-04-016
author: Marianna Brady
---

Analysis of Abortion Data in Illinois (1995-2012)
By Marianna Brady

Public data from the State of Illinois reveals that the number of abortions performed in the state between 1995 and 2012 dropped significantly. The report shows that 52,300 abortions were performed in 1995, compared to 43,203 in 2012.

The total number of abortions reached its maximum in that 17 year period in 1996, when 53613 were performed. Although the state saw a few more peaks (in 2002 and 2008), the number of abortions has been on a fairly consistent decline.

Consistent with that trend, the number of abortions performed on women between the ages of 15-17 receiving abortions has also dropped from 4,387 in 1995 to 1,995 in 2012.

Unmarried women receive about six times as many abortions as married women, with about two percent of abortions being performed on women who did report their marital status.

Although the data shows a general decline in the number of total abortions and the number of abortions in teenagers between the ages of 15 and 17, a different trend emerged for women between the ages of 40 and 45.

Abortions for women between 40 and 45 rose between 1995 and 2012 from 1,045 to 1,355.

The majority of abortions were performed on women between age 20 and 24, according to the data set. This stayed consistent over the 17 year period. The fewest abortions were performed on girls below the age of 14.

Abortions for women age 35 to 39 stayed fairly steady, and in doing so surpassed the number of women age 18 to 19 and women age 15 to 17, groups that had reached a steady decline by 2012.





Source: Data.gov (Run by U.S. General Services Administration - independent organization designed in 1949 to keep the government ‘in check’)
